We understand that we live
in a world of objects.
We also understand that we can
do things with these objects,
we can manipulate them that
objects themselves can do things.
And so whereas we were talking about
nouns, let's talk about verbs.
So time to wax the car.
We have a function and
what this does is it takes state and
it takes an object and, so
it takes really two objects,
and then it just returns another object.
And so we can think of a function
is that it's just a unit
that we give it something and
we get something back.
Now, what I want to show here is this is
kind of your classic s5ish method and
going forward,
we're going to be using fat arrows.
So, this is what this looks like,
all we've done is we've just taken
the function piece, dropped it off and
put a fat arrow on the other side.
That's the simplest way to convert it.
Now what we have is
the ability to not only
call a method and
how to do something and so
in this case,
select client is very simple.
It's just taking two objects and
returning a new object.
And from here,
we're able to call that method and
it does something more importantly,
is that we're able to call that method and
have the result capture that,
and store that somewhere else.
And so, this is just a very simple,
I think,
almost obvious kind of tenant about
methods, is that you can call them.
But a lot of times you wanna structure
your code in a way that you can
call it and store the result.
The reason being is that when you
can store when you have a method
that was turned something,
you can test the return or
you can write an assertion on
the result of that function.
And so this is why for me, typically I
prefer methods that I pass something in,
I get something out that I have a clear
contract with that method versus methods
that you just call in and something
happens you don't know what it is.
There are times like that, but
more often than not Is when you can,
not all the time but when you could have
a method that actually does something and
then returns a value.
That is a much easier method to test.
So what we can do here,
is we can define a store, so
think of this is just an object
that is keeping track of
the clients and the current client.
And so you could imagine
this would be maybe a place
that our initial client state
may exist at some point.
And so what we can do now based on this,
is we can find the client store and
then we can start to manipulate
it in the sense of we can say,
I want to create a new client store.
What is that?
Well, it's an object,
we are saying I want to create a new
object that represents the store
in which I'm storing my clients.
Then I want this store to do things and so
now we were going from data structures
with nouns to nouns with verbs.
And so we're saying I want to create this
noun and then once I have this noun or
this data structure, which is nothing
more than when you instantiate a class,
it returns an object, which is
nothing more than a data structure.
Some of those properties are methods that
you can then invoke and so in this case,
clientstore.load putting the clients
in their clients store dot select or
selecting a client.
And in this case, we're also
creating a new client, so
going up to the clients section
here class clients store.
And what we can do is we
can have clients we can
have a current client and
then what we can do and
so this is just a transition
step we're going
to clean this up in a little bit is
that it's going to take clients and
we're just going to say this
clients equals clients.
And what I'm going to
say here is this is also
an array of clients and
it doesn't like the,
fact that I have clients here and
then I'm setting it in here.
So let me go new clients like so and
I'm going to do a create
method new client,
which is also a client and then I'm going
to do something that is not awesome, well.
It'll be fine, so we're gonna go
this clients equals this clients and
so we'll talk about this particular
operator a little bit later.
But basically, I'm just saying,
create a new array and
put the old clients and
then this new client in here.
Did forget one thing, so
load and we'll go select we'll,
send in a client object, And notice
everything I'm doing up to this point,
I'm just defining essentially verbs,
and I'm attaching it to this instance.
And then from here, I'll just assign this
current client to the new client,
all right.
Now let's instantiate this client
store equals new clients store and
then let's do this, now, so
really drive this point home.
I'm gonna set we'll save this And
notice that I've
instantiated the class, but I haven't done
anything yet, so it's an empty object.
But now when I go clients door and
I say load,
and then I pass in clients,
let's save this,
Notice what's happening to the instance
of the client store that I've created.
Well, it's an object and so
I'm just adding stuff to it.
Clients store select and
let's go with Peter,
all right, let's save this.
And so now we have an object and we have
methods that allows us to manipulate this.
So I could do the create a new one but
I think we are pretty solid on this.